Good to see you.
All right, yeah.
What a good morning so far.
We are in this series called Stepping into the Story.
And how wonderful to just have heard all the different individuals, Pete, Nikki, James that have brought some really encouraging words.
I just want to say thank you always to Pete and Nikki for this opportunity, and it's always a joy to share.
I don't know if you found yourself ever in a situation where you thought, I've said yes to something, and now I'm wondering, what am I doing?
The anxiety is there, the fear is there, the intrepidation, and you think, was I really hearing correctly?
And for us recently, we found ourselves no less in the French Alps.
And I'll never forget when I heard the click, click sound.
Dave, you'll know what I'm talking about.
You're putting on those snow skis.
And just like two weeks ago, our son had said for my 30th birthday, we would love to go skiing.
Now, before you think, are you crazy?
We had grown up skiing.
I did as a child and then we took our kids year after year.
That was our one vacation that we did.
And do you know, for the most part, started going down that hill and I was like, yeah, I got this.
This is good.
We're doing okay.
I had to block out the fact that everyone around me was like in their 20s looking like you guys.
And I was like, okay, we can do this.
And, you know, remarkably, the entire week we stayed safe.
And it's funny because that phrase, Claire Parker, dear friend before I went, said, just want to say one thing, two words, stay safe.
And over and over, the Holy Spirit would use that, you know, like, okay, don't you're getting a little fast here?
And, you know, but the Lord was good.
We came back in one piece.
There was, however, and we had glorious weather.
I'm sorry it rained here, because it was incredible just seeing the mountains and the majesty of the Lord.
And it made me think of that scripture.
I lift my eyes to the hills.
Where does my help come from?
My help comes from the Lord, the maker of heaven and earth.
And even in the gondola, it was just our family, but we started worshiping and praising.
And it was a powerful moment.
And towards the end of the week, though, we realized, oh, our legs are getting a little tired, and our families have skied with Dave and Don.
That's why I keep looking at him.
But our legs were tired, and we started getting sloppy.
Wouldn't you agree?
Yeah.
So what we should have done at the beginning of the week is had a lesson, but leave it to us.
We're fine.
So we had a lesson on the very last day.
And it was quite funny because I meet this instructor and he's, first of all, I think his eyes, he saw my retro jumpsuit.
It's like 30 years old and he's like, oh, okay.
And then for some reason, I just happened to say, by the way, and I told him our ages, at this point, his eyes got really big and like, shouldn't you be in the spa?
Like, why are you here?
And it was like, well, our goal is we want to stay safe, keep fit.
We haven't skied in about 12 years, and this instructor is looking really panicked.
But he said, OK, what's your goal?
And I said, well, I just want to be able to ski with all of my grandkids one day.
I could just play in this snow, but yeah, let's ski.
So he takes us out, and we're doing pretty good.
It is the last day.
And we come on this little pass.
And when I say a pass, it's not even a path as big as the width of the row.
A lot of people are on this pass.
So the instructor, for some reason, just wants to make sure we're okay, and he stops.
I'm the one right behind him, so I'm like, and I stop.
The next thing that happens, I felt this weight beyond like a rugby tackle.
Boom.
And the next thing I know, I am on the ground.
My hip hits the hard eyes.
And I see these skis.
And the first thing I think is at my age, this could be a good lawsuit.
But then I turn around and I see my dear beloved.
My dear beloved has knocked me flat on my backside.
Skis came off and all I thought was, I had not even fallen all week and you took me out.
I love you still there.
And it was at that moment, he goes, babe, I'm so sorry, I couldn't stop.
And I'm like, you think?
Yeah, but at that moment, I just had to let grace fill my heart.
I was like, okay, everything, I feel like I'm okay.
Yep, we're all in one piece.
Let grace fill my heart and just say, okay, come on, let's go.
And this is a story I'd love to actually share with you.
Today, we're looking at a woman who took those steps that changed the trajectory of generations.
We're looking at a story of a woman who foreshadows the inclusion of all nations, all people in God's redemptive plan.
It's a story of a woman who heard of God's deliverance.
In fact, many had heard that she was the only one who believed and God used her right where she was.
In this belief, she was gripped by God's grace.
And so today I want us to look at gripped by grace.
There's three points I'm gonna have you quickly tell them to the person sitting next to you, all right?
So here's the first one, grace found her.
Turn to your neighbor and say that.
Grace found her.
One more time, grace found her, okay?
All right, you got it.
The second thing is that grace
stirred her heart.
Tell your neighbor, Grace stirred her heart.
So Grace found her, Grace stirred her heart.
The third one is Grace reclaimed her and her household.
Amen.
And today we are looking at the story of Rahab, that
prophetic word rage that you gave couldn't have been more spot on.
So I love the way God has something stirring in our hearts.
So here we are, the story of Rahab.
Give us a hand if you know the story of Rahab.
I love it because as I've studied and unpacked that, even this morning, he was showing me things that I had missed.
And so the wonderful thing at looking at Scripture and back on the lives of those who said, yes, is we could learn from them.
We can embrace, think about what they had to choose and see what Holy Spirit has for you.
So I pray that each of us would take at least one thing.
You'd be gripped by grace when he finds you, stirs your heart and reclaims you.
So here we are in Joshua 2, verse 1, and it says this.
Now Joshua, the son of none sent out two men from Shaitan.
I'll call it that.
There you go.
Believe it or not, it's actually pronounced the way you're thinking, but I'm not going to do that from up here.
It actually means a cage to grove to spy secretly, saying go view the land, especially Jericho.
So they came to the house of a harlot named Rahab and lodged there.
And what we want to take out from this, when a Joshua sent two men, he learned from the past.
Moses sent how many men?
Yeah, he sent 12 spies.
Didn't go down very well.
Ten of them were negative.
They ended up hanging out in the desert for 40 more years.
So he learned from past leadership.
He said, two spies secretly, and they have this reconnaissance mission.
And the first thing they do is come to Jericho.
Jericho, this fortified city, it was surrounded by strong springs like an oasis.
And it was a place where many, many people were.
And the thing that I wanted us to grasp is the very first thing sometimes when we say yes to God,
And here they are, they're spying out the land.
They know that they're meant to take the land.
The first thing they do is run into this massive obstacle.
Any of you feel like that when you said, yes, you stepped in and all of a sudden you're like, oh, I wasn't expecting that.
You're stretched.
And what I thought the Holy Spirit was saying in this moment from Scripture,
One of the powerful things is to align our mind with truth.
Second Corinthians 12-9, Paul has this encounter with Jesus.
And Jesus says, what?
My grace is sufficient.
My grace is sufficient for my power is made perfect in your weakness.
So when we are weak, his strength infuses us,
1 Thessalonians 524 says, faithful is he who calls you and he will do it.
He is faithful and he will do it when he asks you to step into something.
And over and over, what you see is that they will face, this is the first of many obstacles.
If you look over in Joshua 12, king after king after king after king is listed,
as those that Joshua and the people of Israel defeated.
So it's the first of many.
To understand the story of Jericho falling, it could only be looked at in the light and context of the history and redemption of God.
I want you to imagine for over 400 years the Canaanites had settled in this land.
And here it was a culture that was steeped
and idolatry, pagan worship, and false gods.
So generation after generation, they rejected the true God of Israel.
And here, that promise, that Abrahamic covenant that was set in Genesis, it is about to take place.
It is the beginning of part of it.
So that's Jericho.
I loved that we were singing today.
that our praise is the shout that brings Jericho down.
There are some Jericho walls in our own life that only by refocusing and praising and going, God, you're good.
God, I don't see it.
God, I don't understand.
I don't get it.
But as you praise, He gets so much of our life, our perspective.
And He says, keep praising.
That shout will bring that wall down.
Rahab's house.
It was an inn, a perfect place to stay for people coming in and out of the city.
If you were a foreigner coming in, then it wouldn't be that it was not that big of a deal because they were used to people coming in and out.
The second thing that we want to look at
is right here, Grace found her.
Grace found Rahab.
I love this.
God providentially sent the spies to her in his sovereignty.
He led the spies to the one person and all of Canaan, that, and all of Jericho, that believed in him.
And you have to understand, with Rahab,
She didn't grow up, she didn't get faith from her parents.
There was pagan worship.
She didn't have prophets going up and down the streets, you know, saying, repent, turn to God.
She wouldn't have heard, she would not have heard the law and the teaching.
She would not have engaged in the festivals that would help her understand who Jehovah God was.
But yet, the only thing we know about her is that she heard of the victories of God.
And with that little thing, she believed, which is so powerful.
There's so much here, but for a lot of us, here we are.
We hear week after week.
And some of us believe that no
I've got to get things together.
I've got to present this image of myself where I don't have enough Bible knowledge to go and go into the schools like Big Love is and teaching.
And all he's saying, my little becomes much.
My little becomes much.
So Grace finds her and I love that even though she lived in a godless culture,
She heard the stories of Israel's powerful God.
So some commentaries say she was an innkeeper.
Let's face it.
She was a prostitute.
That's what she did.
That she was a businesswoman.
She was smart.
She was very quick on her feet and we'll see here.
So what happens?
Let me read the scripture.
She has this conversation with
with the spies.
So let me just give you a quick summary.
Rahab believes in the God of Israel, just a little seed that stirs her heart.
The spies come to her house and the scripture says that she peacefully let them in.
She peacefully welcomes them.
And what ensues is that immediately word gets out to the king and the king says to Rahab,
bring the spies to me."
Now, what I noticed when I studied this, he did not ask, are the spies in your house?
He said, bring them to me.
And the first thing we see of Rahab in this place gripped by grace, she is courageous.
The king summons and says, bring them and in resolving to like a higher authority that she's now believing, she says, they're not here.
The king's messengers come and they say, are the guys here?
And she says they were here, but now they've gone away and sends them away from the spies.
So here she's a woman of influence.
Now I don't know if I was watching a movie and I see some guards rushing to a house, what do you expect them to do?
Search the house, right?
They take Rahab at her word.
She says, they're not here.
And they say, okay.
Now what that tells us, she's a woman of influence, but also in that society, in a Canaanite society, actually believing a prostitute had high regard.
And because many were priestess in their temples, in their worship.
So she used her influence where before she had used it to serve false gods at this moment, she's surrendering her heart to God and saying, no, they're not here.
And he uses her in a different way as she is.
I find that remarkable.
She didn't clean up her act.
She didn't get rid of her business right there.
God used her.
And that's a word.
That's a word for me.
That's a word for each of us.
Right where you are.
God will use you.
Turn to your neighbor and say that.
Right where you are.
God will use you.
Amen, amen.
His grace found her.
He uses her as she is.
Right where he finds her.
for his glory.
Can I just ask, who were we to limit God?
Yeah, God stirred her heart.
God stirred her heart.
And in this scripture, let me just explain, she has this conversation.
So she hides the spies on the roof.
King's men go, and she goes up to the roof, and she has this conversation.
And let me read this together.
And this is actually called, so it's Joshua 2, verses 9 and 11, and it's called Rahab's Confession.
I know the Lord has given you this land, she told them.
We are all afraid of you.
Everyone in the land is living in terror.
For we have heard how the Lord made a dry path for you through the Red Sea when you left Egypt.
No wonder our hearts have melted in fear.
No one has the courage to fight after hearing such things.
For the Lord's your God is the supreme God of heavens above and on the earth.
So we see that grace stirred her heart.
She had heard
of the victories of the God of Israel.
Do we allow the Holy Spirit to stir our hearts?
Or if we harden our hearts, have we put walls like a Jericho?
I had a picture of that that sometimes we create these safe walls around us.
It's easy to come, hear a talk, do a bit of worship, leave, and that's it.
And I feel like today he's saying, let these walls come down.
There's so many people that are ready to hear, ready to receive his truth.
And I love because Rahab recognized God's power, not Israel's.
She didn't commend the army.
She gave the true source.
She commended God, his power.
And it was at this pivotal moment that she chooses to act.
I hope that resonates with you.
It's a choice at that key, key moment to act.
And God's grace meets her there when he uses her to bring the spies to safety.
As I was thinking about this, I was reminded of just a little incident I had with one of my granddaughters
I was up there watching one of our granddaughters Gabriella and we were having fun and playing and I just gave her the biggest hug and said, I love you so much.
And she hugged me back and said, I'm glad you're having a good day with me.
Now I thought she of course would say, I love you too.
I was so precious.
I was like, I have to go write that down.
I'm glad you're having such a good day with me.
And as the Holy Spirit brought that to mind, it was like the Lord said, that is an example of delight.
Delight yourself and the Lord.
He delights in you.
And he wants us to delight in him in his presence, having that time together.
Do you know when I'm trying to figure out what to speak on just for since last time I spoke?
I'm just writing in my journal, Lord, what are you saying?
What are you hearing?
What do you want me to hear?
And it's that communion, that delight.
And I love this.
Raise your hand if you've heard of Charles Spurgeon.
Hallelujah.
Do you know he's an Essex lad?
I did not know he was from Essex.
Now, if you're new to this realm,
He was from the 1800s.
You're like, no, I haven't met him yet.
So anyway, this is one of the things that I came across.
This is pretty powerful.
And let me read this with you.
So Spurgeon says, when the Creator gives his creature the power of thirst, it is because water exists to meet its thirst.
like that message we heard so powerfully from Nikki.
When he creates hunger, there is food to correspond with the appetite.
Even so, when he inclines us to pray, it is because prayer has a corresponding blessing connected with it.
And when he was explaining this, this quote is actually when he was unpacking that scripture that Jesus was sharing about ask.
Ask and you will,
receive, seek and you will knock and the door will be opened.
And he's saying, I delight in giving you, I delight in seeing your faith grow.
But the verbs there are keep asking, keep seeking, keep knocking.
The Canaanites occupied this land for 400 years.
It was time for God's redemption.
The children of Israel were in the wilderness for 40 years.
And how we want instant answers.
And he's saying, oh, I'm conforming you to my son.
Be patient, be trusting.
And that's the one thing I've just seen with Rahab, that she was a trust, she was full of trust.
She believed
just simply by hearing.
There's some scriptures that I was looking at this together, just one to highlight.
In John 20, 29, when Jesus has this, when Thomas sees Jesus after the resurrection, and he said, I can't believe until I see your hands, and Jesus says, blessed are those who have not seen and yet believed.
May our faith increase, may our faith rise.
John 12, Jesus encourages us to walk in the light that we have.
We don't have to wait for more and more and more, but he says, walk in the truth, walk in the light that you now have.
And it's pretty remarkable.
Rahab is also referred to in other places, in Hebrews and in James.
Hebrews, it says, by faith, the harlot Rahab did not perish with those who believe when she had received the spies with peace.
So she's commended for her faith here.
James 2.25, likewise, was not Rahab the harlot justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out another way.
And the difference that we see, her belief, that choice turned to action, which then leads to experience.
Huge difference, just saying, yep, yep, I agree, I believe when you step into it and experience God's power, God's strength, those promises you read becoming
answered in your life.
That's where he wants us to be.
James 122, I don't have it up here, but it's actually a bit of a warning.
And he says in light of this passage of Rahab's mentioning Rahab's works, he actually says, be doers of the word, not just hearers.
And sometimes we leave it at that, but there's a little phrase and it says, lest you deceive yourself.
Some of you know that, that's great.
Because we can just convince ourselves, I don't really need to do a lot.
But it says, work out your salvation with fear and trembling in Ephesians 2.
We are created in Christ for good works.
It's His workmanship.
Can you imagine if Rahab just said, nah, I'm not good enough?
No, I'm going to stay behind the safety of these walls.
We would not be talking about her today.
It would be someone else God used.
The last point here is Grace reclaimed her and her household because of her obedience, because of her yes.
He reclaimed her and her household.
She speaks to the spies and they have what is called, sorry, I'm not used to wearing these, but that's old age.
She speaks with the spies and they have this oath of kindness.
And kindness here is that enduring has said love.
It's a covenant of love.
And it's an oath that says,
Right, don't tell anyone of our plans, hang this scarlet cord in the window and you and your household will be saved.
And we know that picture of the scarlet cord, I looked everywhere online, just couldn't get one.
So this is kind of what came up.
But the words were grace reclaimed her.
Wow, think of all the labels that she could have just worn the rest of her life.
But Grace, his grace said, you're mine.
And that picture of the scarlet cord 40 years earlier when the children of Israel are coming out of Egypt before they came out and that last plague was the angel of death coming and taking the firstborn of every family.
And only the Israelites that put the blood of a lamb over the doorpost that the angel of death passed over.
So it's symbolic here of the redemption of Christ.
Redeem means to buy back.
That payment was made when Jesus died on the cross for us.
And it was a beautiful picture.
I just tried to put myself on that story when all the children of Israel marched around for six days on that seventh day and they start shouting, the walls start coming down.
She is thinking that cord literally is her lifeline, that red cord.
And it's that the Lord setting the stage for His people to come and rescue her.
And over and over, even in Joshua 6, it's saying, Joshua says, hey, don't forget about Rahab the harlot.
And then over and over, get Rahab the harlot.
And they always refer to her
as Ray had the harlot, even as we saw in Hebrews and James.
And a part of me was like, gosh, that's so unfair.
Call her Ray had the business woman, the entrepreneur, the one that saved our butts.
Am I allowed to say that?
Ray had the harlot.
And two things, labels people want to put on us before we knew Jesus.
Have you ever gone back into like an old hangout place with people that you knew from way back when?
And it's just, it can get tricky.
You have a new name.
You have a new identity in Christ.
Amen?
We have a new name, a new identity, all that shame, all that guilt, all that.
We didn't make it lays at the foot of the cross and the blood of Jesus covers us.
The blood of Jesus
And can I just say, if you're new to Christian things, you're thinking, oh, that sounds a bit weird.
That is the power that raised Jesus from the dead.
His blood is that resurrected life.
If I didn't have blood in me right now, I'd be dead, right?
Blood equals life.
And it also equals the authority that he's given us.
There's an old hymn, what can wash away my sins?
Nothing but the blood of Jesus.
And you know, sometimes when you're in a situation and you just speak the better word of the blood, the blood heals, the blood cleanses, the blood restores, the blood gives us life.
Jesus' blood, his lifeline for us.
That's a good word, his word.
That scarlet cord represents her complete trust in Jehovah instead of allowing fear, anxiety, desperation to set her path.
She was gripped by grace.
Rahab was written into God's story because she recognized truth when she heard it and she did everything to align with it.
And this was something I came across, Eugene Peterson.
This is good.
When God gives us revelation and understanding of His truth, it's not to inform us.
It's to involve us.
That's my heart.
The other week when people, we were all stepping over the line, my husband and I just stood over there because the parkers went, we went.
I was standing there.
hundreds of us crossed over this line.
Hundreds of us said, yes, I'm in.
So my heart today, when I think of the story of Rahab is she had so little, but look what God did.
We go to find out that later Rahab, she's of course mentioned in the genealogy of Christ in Matthew 1,
The beautiful thing, she is a new identity.
She is not called Rahab the harlot.
She's just called Rahab.
She married someone called Salmon, not like salmon, like a fish, but Salmon.
And we know his name because it's mentioned.
They became the parents of Boaz, Boaz of Jesse, Jesse of King David.
into the line of Christ.
She has a new identity.
And do you know what Gary and I were talking about this yesterday in the sunshine walking our dog?
And he said, you know what's interesting?
We don't know the names of the spies.
But we know her name.
God knows your name.
He knows your story.
Your story is never one to hide, never one to be ashamed of.
Why?
Why do we know it's Rahab the prostitute?
It exemplifies his grace.
That grace that gripped her, that grace that found her, that grace that stirred her heart and grace that reclaimed her and her household.
Her household, her brothers, her sisters, her mother, father trusted her.
Beautiful.
And she was taken away, given land.
And it says that she was esteemed, highly regarded by Joshua.
And so she has a new life, new identity by his grace.
So as we wrap up, just want to ask you, she willingly stepped in with what little she had.
And as we stepped across that line, what does it mean to you?
It doesn't have to be huge.
It might be inviting someone to your house to hang out, have a meal, and chat about life.
It might be having a coffee.
It might be saying yes to Jesus for the first time.
I've heard about them and I'm ready to say yes.
Stepping into the story.
Would you stand with me?
Father, we thank you for the many ways that you allow us to get a glimpse of what you will do
God, I thank you for your truth, that truth that resonates when we say yes.
And do you know, as we were worshiping, I actually had a picture of doors flying open, almost like it reminded me of a racetrack, or as you've seen on the
Olympics, those barriers that are there, and then the athletes are ready to run and be released, or to ski and be released.
And that was a picture I felt that he's saying, there's so many openings, there's so many possibilities, are you willing to simply step?
Step with the faith you know,
So I just ask if that's you, if you're in a place where you feel like you've been on the fringe or just kind of, now life's good, uncomfortable.
I love hanging out with my Netflix series and shutting my doors.
I just pray, yeah, that God would just stir, stir your heart to say.
Gosh, our days are short, Lord, let me live for your glory.
Use me as you want to.
Help me get rid of the walls.
Invite people into the story with you.
Rahab didn't run and go, yep, I'm safe.
She saved her household.
That came to mind that just, I wonder, could you raise your hand if someone in your family
is still yet to say yes to Jesus.
Could you raise your head?
Wow.
Yeah, Lord.
May our faith never be just for us.
God, I thank you that there is a reason that every person is here.
God, I pray that households would surrender to the name of Christ.
Holy Spirit, would you just infuse each person
with that realization that they were once far off and you have now brought them near by the blood of Jesus Christ.
Lord, I pray like Rahab, she wasn't afraid of the king.
She did not have the fear of man, but she was humble and peaceful.
So I prayed peace over those families that are, there's the spirits that tried to divide
May your peace come.
May those that there's any discouragement.
I feel like maybe some of you have said I've prayed for years.
I so wish I could have told this story.
A plumber came to our house in a minute.
And he exemplified Christ to me.
And he actually left his iPad, had to come back.
And I said, wow, I was just writing about you.
And he was like, what?
And I said, I wanted to ask you if you had faith.
And he said, oh, no, but my wife does.
And I said, he said, I'm not religious.
And I said, well, you know what?
In a few minutes, we got to know each other.
I know that you're generous.
I know that he talked about forgiveness.
And he also is retiring because he wants to help his wife foster.
People retiring go do other things.
And I said, you say you're not religious, but you look a lot like Jesus.
And he just smiled and said, my wife goes to church.
And I thought, no doubt, she prays for you.
So just believe from that.
And we just spoke of blessing over him, Adrian.
So believe that people that you love, that you long for them to know Christ, God will use many people.
That burden is not just on you, that God can do and will move heaven and earth to show his heart to others.
So God, we thank you.
We bless you.
If you want prayer, there's a few of us up here.
praying for the lost.
If you want to say yes to Jesus, come.
If you want that courage to step in, come down.
And we just say thank you in your mighty name.